# Section 1: Getting Started with TypeScript

- 1. How to Get Help
- 2. Join Our Community!
- 3. Course Resources
- 4. TypeScript Overview
- 5. Environment Setup
- 6. Important Axios Version information
- 7. A First App
- 8. Executing TypeScript Code
- 9. One Quick Change
- 10. Catching Errors with TypeScript
- 11. Catching More Errors!


## 1. How to get Help

- Udemy Q&A Discussion Boards
- Direct Message on Udemy
- Twitter: @ste_grider




## 2. Join Our Community!

We welcome you to join our Discord community of fellow students, developers, and engineers. Keep up with the latest news and announcements or start a discussion by clicking here: https://discord.gg/h2G3CbxPZA


## 3. Course resources



## 4. TypeScript Overview


We're going to spend the whole course learning about the `type system`

- The goal of the type system is to help us catch errors during development.
- Uses 'type annotations' to analyze our code
- Only active during development
- Doesn't provide any performance optimization

## 5. Environment Setup




- $ npm install -g typescript ts-node
- tsc --help # TypeScript compiler help



### Install VSCode


Optional Settings

Add 'code' to path
Install Prettier Extension
Run prettier on save
Use single quotes with prettier
Use two spaces for indentation
Set theme 'Solarized Light'


## 6. Important Axios Version Information

In the upcoming lecture, we will be installing axios to use in our demo project. There is currently a major bug that has broken the last three versions of axios since v1. Until this is officially resolved, you must install the last known working pre-v1 release:

`npm install axios@0.27.2`



## 7. A First App

> Make a network request to fetch some JSON and print the result

Show why we use TypeScript,
demonstrate some small bugs


- Take a look at the API we'll use to fetch data
- Create a new project directory
- Create a package.json file
- Install axios to make a request
- Write code!


Fake JSON API: `jsonpalceholder.typicode.com`

jsonpalceholder > Resources

- /posts:    100 posts
- /comments: 500 comments
- /albums:   100 albums
- /photos:   5000 photos
- /todos:    200 todos
- /users:    10 users


Create a new project director
mkdir fetchjson
npm i axios@0.27.2

## 8. Executing TypeScript Code

- touch index.js


axios.get

To do so, I'll write out Axios target and then I'll pass in that URL.

So that's going to make a HTTP, get request to that URL and attempt to fetch that JSON data.
With the response once we get a response from that API.
will be called.


So to get a notification on when the request is complete, we can chain on a dot, then statement that

So by calling Axios target, we're going to receive a promise in return.

That entire operation is async.
We can use Axios to make a network request to this URL.


- tsc index.ts
- node index.js

In the next lesson we'll see why TypeScript is handy.

## 9. One Quick Change


In the next video we'll make sure its clear what's wrong in this program
How to use TypeScript to avoid the error we just made.


## 10. Catching Errors with TypeScript


Create a program to create a report of todos
The property names are not capital in the body of what's sent from jsonplaceholder

Interfaces: Are used in TypeScript to define the structure of an object.


After adding the interface Todo to our response object todo.

`const todo = response.data as Todo`


And then as soon as I do so, I'm going to get three ears right here, light up inside of my editor.

So this right here, this is what it is all about.

TypeScript has analyzed our code using the type, annotations or type labeling that we've added into

this program, and it has found that we might have a possible error.

So it has now underlined these three properties to tell us, Hey, developer, you might be doing something

wrong here.


## 11. Catching More Errors!

In this video, I want to make one additional change to our program.

I want to take this console.log statment and extract it into a helper function.
So that will allow us to make this promise body more compact than it is.


define  anew function logTodo


add type annotation to function parameters




## 12. Do Not Skip - courser Overview

## 13. Types

## 14. More on Types

> Type are used by the TypeScript compiler to analyze our code for errors

> Types allow other engineers to understand what values are flowing around our codebase

## 15. Examples of Types

mkdir features


## 16. Where do We Use Types?


