# Section 3: Type Annotations in Action





## 17. Type Annotations and inference


Type annotations and type inference are two different systems within
TypeScript.


These two features apply slightly differently to:

-  variable declarations
- functions
- object


type annotations: Code we add to tell TypeScript what type of value a variable will refer to.
type inference: TypeScript tries to figure out what type of value a variables refers to.





## 18. Annotations with Variables


working with values vs types
for instance
let nothingMuch: null = null;

## 19. Object Literal Annotations



let apples: number = 5;
let speed: string = 'fast';
let hasName: boolean = true;

let nothingMuch: null = null;
let nothing: undefined = undefined;


and some built in objects as well.In the last video, we started to explore type annotations around simple types like number string boolean, and some built-in objects as well.

We'll now write out some examples that use a more complicated syntax

/projects/features/annotations/variables.ts



## 20. Annotations Around Functionsand object literals as well.

Once again, I just want to remind you that we're going to have a separate section on arrays, classes
and object literals.

The next video, we're going to start to understand this kind of tension between type annotations and

type inference.

## 21. Understanding Inference

In the last video we saw that we could remove all these different type annotations and we did not see

any errors.


In this video, we're going to discuss how type inference works and then discuss when we're going to

rely on type inference versus adding in an annotation manually.



### The basics of Type Inference

Anytime you and I make a new variable inside of our application, we're actaully undergoing two separate
steps.

`const colnor = 'red'`

On the left side of the equals sign we say const color. We're doing something called `variable declarationwith the given name.`

This is where we are telling our program that we're going to have a new variable inside of our application
with a given name.


In the second step of this process on the right hand side of the equal sign, we are attempting to assign a varaible
for the very first time is referred to as `varaible initilization`.


So, again, the rule of thumb here is if we're doing the initialization and declaration on the same line, TypeScript will use type inference for us.


### When to add type annotations?

2:23 / 3:50

So now here's the really obvious question When are we going to add in these type annotations?


If we're saying that TypeScript can figure out these different types for us, why would we go through

the process of writing out the annotations manually?
Let's take a look at a diagram to understand why we might want to use type inference over annotation

or the opposite.
And that's a great question.

### When to use Type annotations or Type inference


2:47 / 3:50

or a variable is going to refer to.

Now a type of inference.That's where TypeScript is going to guess everything for us.
So in general, we're going to rely on type inference always, all the time, wherever we can, we will
rely on type inference. That means that whenever you and I have a variable that we are declaring and then initializing on the same line, you and I in this course are not going to add in type annotations.

And we're going to go through these three different examples of where we are going to add in these type annotations to help TypeScript out.


So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.
So let's take a quick break right here.

inside this file. So we are going to rely upon type inference as much as we possibly can, but there are three scenarios where we will rely on type annotations.
So we're going to have a lot of code that looks like this right here. // i.e. un-annotated / inferred

And we will much more rarely have code that looks like this down here or anything else that you see

So in that file that we just put together, we've got a lot of examples of type annotations.
So remember, that's where you and I, the developers are going to tell TypeScript the type that a value




## 22. The 'Any' Type

- [One little Gotcha](2:02 / 7:47)


## 23. Fixing the 'Any' Type
